# Andrés

_**Andrés - Why we Monerujo?**_

_Monero Konferenco 2022 #MoneroKon2022 Lisbon - Day 1_

[https://youtu.be/566950WnM1c](https://youtu.be/566950WnM1c)

---

_**Andres:**_ Today I'll speak about Monerujo. Just in case someone doesn't  know what it is, it's a mobile wallet. It's a mobile wallet for Monero. It was the first one that appeared in 2017, when there was no one. It's only for Android, and it's the creation of m2049r which is the main coder. He's the only one that knows how to code in the Monerujo team. We also have Baltsar that joined afterwards, and me. The group was helped to be formed by Diego, Rehrar, that was in charge of so many things of the Monero Community back in the day. So, you could say that Monerujo is a mix of Austrian engineering and Swedish design, and my side would be the Argentinean side of knowing what to do with money when it's broken.

So, I said that Monerujo is a mobile wallet for Monero it's free and free. It's open source. It's released on the Apache license. So it means that everybody can copy and modify whatever they want and share it. People are really doing that, we have like a fork that is kind of well known now. Which is good, we love that. And it's also of course free because people can get it from several places. You can get it from the Play store, if you're kind of a normie. But you can also get the .apk from GitHub. And of course we're on F-Droid which is the Play store that we all like to use.

Monerujo right now is used by more than 25,000 users, active users. That picture is actually of 25,000 people, so you get an idea. So every time that you're using that, know that you're not alone. Sometimes it feels like that in the real life because nobody knows about Monero,  and even less people know about Monerujo, but we're a lot of us now. And, these are only the Play store people, because we think that probably since Monero is a privacy-focused cryptocurrency, we don't know how many people are using it, actually. And we don't want to know. So people from F-Droid, and people from the .apk, we don't have any stats on that.

So, since 2017 it's been working or not. This is the joke that we like to use. Because our releases are kind of like this, it's like a Schrödinger kind of release. It's done, and then just 5 minutes afterwards, it's not done, Monero changes something, people complain about something, we keep changing it and updating it a bit all the time. So this is like our mantra, every time that we feel nervous and we say: "Oh this is bad. Listen, It's been not working since 2017 and people keep using it so it's alright".

But we did something different this year, maybe it was COVID, I don't know. We got together virtually and we had a very personal conversation between the team. Because we're like a team of volunteers, and each of us has its own day job, so we have to earn our livings, and by night we fight crime and work on Monerujo shit. And we had like a really great conversation about if we wanted to keep developing it or not. If it was worth it. Now that there are more wallets around, so it's not that super needed. I don't know if you can see these things, but we eventually wanted to go back to first principles, and my talk is "Why we Monerujo"? So we started to have, for the first time between us and we've been working together for a couple of years already, what do we know, what do we think about money, and what we know and for example, do we still want
to keep being a Monero wallet? Is it something better out there than Monero? There's not, I'm just telling you. For us, at least.

So, figure this out. This is probably, if I'm lucky, this is my life. It's one block per week, assuming that I live until I'm 90 years old. I'm almost right there in the middle, I'm 40 right now. I don't look like that, thank you. But I'm right there, at the last orange block is this week that I'm using to talk to you. So we thought: "Ok, what is the scarcest thing that we have?" Let's make it quick, the scarcest thing that we have is time, of course. We haven't found the way to print that and to devaluate the time we have in this life. We may be able to stretch it a bit, we live longer now than we did before, but so much as to
make it not worth anything like Argentinean pesos for example.

They're not worth much. We realized that, this might sound stupid, but what we do all the time is to trade our time for stuff that we need — for food, shelter, clothing, all this kind of basic stuff. And then, if we have spare money, spare time and time to work on it, we get more fancy stuff, right? So, this is pretty basic, and we think that we realized that when you're lucky enough to get more productive you get more free time for you. So what you do is we came out with a way to save, this is the core belief of what have at Monerujo, a way to save our spare time or effort. It's something, and we invented money. Which is like a battery, a battery for time, right?

So, do we want to keep just being a Monero wallet? We think we do, because Monero is just for us the best money we invented yet. We think it has to have a couple of properties everybody is going to talk about that today, and tomorrow here. For example decentralized, and private enough, but the important thing for us is privacy, and I'll say why.

So we keep trading all the time our time. This is the famous pyramid of needs of Maslow. At the base is all the basic stuff and as we're moving up, and up, and up, we get to spend on fancy stuff, right? Down there it's food, shelter and then we get to, I don't know, iPods, organic shampoo, or stuff like that, on the top. We said: "Ok, we're doing this, we're doing this wallet, this wallet is to save, it's like a battery in your pocket, and we're doing it like that". And everything is for this, and maybe it's just my upbringing, I came from a country with very shitty money, and it's been like that for generations. So, what I've noticed is that when you talk to people that were born in places where money doesn't  work that well, the answer for crypto is super easy and straightforward. So, instead of focusing as a wallet developer on financial instruments or stuff like that, we want to focus on the usage of people that are kind of money specialists, and we think that people in the developing world, and I'm using developing as a hopeful statement, because it's going to get developed, I'm not so sure, are using that.

So, another way of looking at that pyramid is that actually there's more people that just get to the basics, in numbers, that people that get to the top of that. And this is not a geographic distribution, it's not like, it's only poor countries or rich countries, there are people like that everywhere. But we realized that people that need to trade their time and are forced to do that are like you selling all the time in a bear market, right? You cannot control the price. The price is controlled by your counter party, the one that's giving it to you. So, if you need to buy food, if you need to buy basic things you cannot pick when it's time to spend your Moneros.

So, we decided to design, and this is the core part of the talk, we decided to design for these people first. Because the way that we understand the world, we're having objectively better lives all the time, I mean things are improving everywhere, even for people with less means. But financially, the money system is getting worse for everybody. Even in the so called "first world". So we noticed that we better pay attention to the people that know what they're doing with their money and design for them, and everybody else will join afterwards soon enough.

This is what we see is going on. Things are starting to bleed. It's not getting greener, it's getting redder, every day. For example, the whole thing with the Canada truckers that you said before and nowadays, people are talking about inflation, on places that weren't talking about that a couple of years ago. So, welcome aboard.

So, back to designing. This year we took this approach for every feature that we have in Monerujo, and we started to say: "Well, does this belong more to the bottom of a pyramid or to the top of one? Let's get it right first, the bottom one, and then upwards slowly". For example, we started on Android. Android is the most used operating system in the world, at least on mobile. Specially in the developing world. Now iOS is getting a bit more widespread, and we're looking into creating an iOS version for Monerujo, but we wanted to nail this one first. Just an example.

Ok, this was a very contentious topic even inside the team, because you have people in both camps, and you'll hear a lot here today — Henry talked about this as well which is: "We need to make crypto easier if we want adoption". And I agree with that part of the statement, but there's a caveat for that which is we don't want to build Nespresso machines and there's a reason for that. If we aim for the people that know more about money, we need, how to say it… If you make things too simple, one of the things that we value about Monero is this decentralization, right? So if we make things too simple in the UI and we start hiding things behind the UI, people don't know what is going on. And if people don't know what's going on at all, they don't learn. They think it's just Paypal, and not like a super fancy hackerish decentralized cryptocurrency, that is on a blockchain and all that. You cannot get everybody to watch 15 Andreas Antonopoulos talks before using money, but, and we're still not there, I know, but we're trying to do that in the UX and in the materials that we provide for the users to make it kind of like almost there.

For example, in the wallet we have a nodes screen, right? So you have it at the top, right there, at the top that's a prominent real state for a wallet, we put the node address in there, and you can search for a node. So, why is that? Why not to use just default nodes? Because we don't want everybody to use the same nodes, that's the reason. And the compromise, that we had to do, was to just after or before that, it was just this is a good example of conversation between the users and us. At first, we thought that the best idea was to have an auto setting where it just scans the Monero network for open nodes, public nodes, and just picks the one that is best for you based on ping, right? This is the best thing ever. It's super decentralized, it's not even using the same 4, 5, or even 10 community run nodes of Monero. It doesn't  work that well right? Not yet, at least. So we compromise and we make: "OK, just keep the auto feature people can refresh to get new nodes, nodes that we, of course, we don't control, but, there's a preset of 5, I think, that is 6 or 10 nodes, that if you're in trouble is like a beacon thing you can hit "Help! Help! Help!" And it populates the list". It doesn't erase your custom nodes, but it populates it with trusted nodes that actually work most of the time.

So we're all the time in between those stages of being super easy and super not. We don't want to build Nespresso machines that people are forced to use, because they don't know how to make coffee. If you like Monero, and if you like the idea, you're not going to download the wallet just because you were browsing the Play store and you went like: "Yeah, what the fuck, let's just try". No. Somewhere, sometime, you heard
about Monero, you looked out for it, and we're assuming that you have some will to use it, right? So, when you do, we want to present you with an Espresso machine. That is kind of fancy, it's kind of hipster, I know. But we're trying to make it look as nice as possible. And we think that, we want to empower people, right? We think that when people know what they're doing and manage to understand how things are working behind the scene, they actually enjoy it more, not less. And it's our goal that these people that just don't like, I don't know, the color that we're using in Monerujo or something, they can go to another wallet, and they can understand what is happening. An example of that is Monero syncing, right? Nobody gets Monero syncing, it doesn't make any sense, when you've used only Paypal or something. But we're not going to get rid of that. So, let's try to provide as much feedback to the user as possible, so they know what it is they are doing and hopefully, people are going to notice just like you, trying to master an espresso machine: "Oh yeah, I should do this and that, and it's going to be better. It's going to taste better". But once you get it to work right, which is going to take a few tries you wouldn't want to go back to the Nespresso thing. That's the whole idea that we have, and our hopes.

So having that in mind, to go back to first principles those are the things that we think people need in a Monero-based wallet. And we're deciding which features goes to each. And back to the espresso analogy, we want the users to feel like Liam here: super capable something is breaking, maybe your country's money is breaking, maybe you want to buy illegal stuff online, maybe you want to fund a super interesting journalism in a country that is a risk for your personal safety, at least. Those cases are going to exist all the time, but we're welcoming more and more normal people to the party, that start to see news and notice that maybe things are not work as well as they did before. Or at least not as well as they look they were before. I don't know how much time to I have, yeah.

There's a feature that there's not here, that people ask about, for example, it's a good example of what I'm talking about design is the Sidekick project. The Sidekick project was born of… the Sidekick project is a separate app which you're going to use on a different phone, and it has to work on Android at first, it's going to work on different platforms afterwards, but it's basically a replacement for a Ledger. Remember what happened last time with Ledger, that they leaked all their emails and addresses of people that bought a Ledger from them. So if you were very careful, it was a nice example of counterproductive thinking, right, because you were very careful, and you just wanted to buy a hardware wallet to be safe, and you want to buy it from the guys straight not from a third party so I'm safer, they leaked all their emails and personal information even the delivery address. And of course I've checked, for example they were like 5, 6 people in my country, with addresses and all that, and that's also a difference in the pyramid thing, because people near the bottom, they're not just worried about taxes. They're worried about their physical well-being, with regards to crypto. And a very small amount of Monero could be several months of a regular payment for people like in Argentina, and there're places that's even worse. So that's a good thing about Monero fees, that they're very low, to use it.

So the Sidekick project — it replaces the Ledger, it's a side app that you should keep, we think that people even in the third world, because third world countries, for example, they usually skip a generation, so they don't have landlines, they just skip from not having phones, to having cellphones, for example. So everybody has a spare, an old cellphone. So, let's put a cellphone, put it on offline mode forever, hopefully, I hope there was an easy way to just break the antenna and you would be safe, but no. You create a wallet there, and it communicates with Monerujo. But it's an open standard, any wallet can implement this. Monerujo and every wallet will think it's a Ledger, and it's on Bluetooth. So it looks like a Ledger Nano X. And you keep your keys offline. So you have all the security of a hardware wallet, but you didn't have to pay anything for it. And for example it may seem counter-intuitive for you, but in many countries is very difficult to even get a Ledger, not even pay for something like a hardware wallet, because it's a lot of money, like 50, 70 dollars is a lot of money for many people, but also for customs. And if you're really worried about the state, for example, you should not import cryptocurrency related devices. We say that we don't want ASICs for that reason. Let's not use hardware wallets either.

So that's one of the examples. Another example is of course we have Orbot to connect to Tor for extra safety on the connection side. It's important also to have a Crazypass which is kind of contentious for some people, but we noticed that there wasn't much security if you choose a very weak password on your phone's files. And now it's a bit better, because now for the past couple of years Android enforced you to use the inside storage, which is encrypted with your Android stuff. But before that you had the wallet files on the file system in the open. So m2049r came up with a solution for that creates a hash of your actual password, and uses that to encrypt the wallet's files. So you get the convenience of being able to open your wallet it's not perfect, you can open the wallet with your easy 1234 password or just blank password. People don't know that you can leave the password blank, and it'll just open your wallet, if you don't want a password or anything. But, the files on your phone are super protected with an encrypted key that is as strong as your seed, basically. Or more, maybe. So, it's one of those trade-offs that you do, if you don't save that or you want to export your wallet files, that's the actual password of your wallet's keys, which is something that is quite tricky to get people to understand.

So, there are many features coming down the line. They're private, for a good reason. And we want to keep developing. So, this is the end of my presentation, this is our last up there. We believe it's important, we try to do our best, we know we have limitations, but we're really trying to do our best. We welcome all the help that we can get. We're really funded by people. We don't have a funding initiative. This is the competition, so that's one sponsor less. I didn't do that on purpose. There's a site that is funding.monerujo.app which is one way that we got for people not only to fund our development of new features but also is super interesting for us to know what they want first. So it's like a voting mechanism, you can just send 0.0001 Moneros and believe me, we take that into account. We start working before the goal is completed, but we really try to make it, you can game the system, but we try to give it priority to those features that even if people don't have enough money but you have more donations, we start to work on those first. Instead of like favoring the whales, so to speak. So this is all that we have. This is our website. Please donate, you bastards. It's the way that it works. And we welcome all the help that you can give us. I'm not talking about money, but reach to us, fork it, make it better, we can copy it back and say it was our idea. And that's all for today. Thank you very much for trading your time for this with me.
