# Simin Ghesmati

_**Simin Ghesmati - User Perceived Privacy in Blockchain**_

_Monero Konferenco 2022 #MoneroKon2022 Lisbon - Day 1_

[https://youtu.be/mwWWem67W08](https://youtu.be/mwWWem67W08)

---

_**Simin:**_ In this paper we evaluated user governance, and public blockchain privacy issues, and privacy enhancing tools. We focused on the UTXO based blockchain, focusing on Bitcoin. And we didn't actually examine their preferences on using privacy add-on techniques on top of Bitcoin or using built-in privacy in privacy coins.

Actually I have lots of slides on privacy issues in Bitcoin that I can skip it in Monerokon, as most of the people are aware of those issues maybe. But I just mentioned some of the issues, as you know that Sarah Mitchell was the first one showed in a scientific paper that there are privacy issues around Bitcoin — they clustered Bitcoin addresses and then they could tag the addresses and create a transaction graphs. And back then privacy techniques emerge in Bitcoin and also in built-in privacy coins.

And then in our research we are going to answer two main questions. The first one is to what extent are users aware of privacy issues and privacy-enhancing technologies? And the second one is what preferences do the users have for privacy-enhancing technologies? And we elaborated this question to do they prefer using add-on privacy techniques on top of Bitcoin or built-in features in privacy coins such as Monero, or are they willing to use privacy preserving techniques despite the higher fees and longer transaction time, and do they also trust a third-party privacy-preserving services in Bitcoin?

And we have a tour on pilot. We also consulted with the our legal office and the usability researcher for providing our questionnaire. And then we defined a logic for our questionnaire to be sure that, for instance, if a user told that I'm not familiar at all with the cryptocurrency, she will jump into the end of the survey as she could fake on the answers. And then for the validity and reliability of our research we had the five exclusion criteria: no knowledge of cryptocurrency, partially reply to the questionnaire, wrongly answer to the quality control question, and select invalid. In total we had 101 respondents. And we eliminated 43 participants by this exclusion criteria.

And we also have qualitative research with 12 users, 10 males 2 females. But it was 16 percent at least more than the females in the room, and also 58 in our quantitative part.

And here is a simple Bitcoin transaction, and you are familiar with that ― Bitcoin can have a lot of input, and then whenever you spend money the remainder will be back to you by change address. So one of the main questions from the users was how they think about Bitcoin anonymity, and what do you think, is the first statement right or is the second question is right? First? Who will say first? And who will say second? Perfect. No one actually, none of these statements are totally true. For sure there are lots of privacy techniques over Bitcoin.

And then, in the first years maybe most of the people have been understanding that Bitcoin is anonymous but not. And yeah, you can see lots of transaction graphs. And we also ask users which the anonymization techniques in Bitcoin they are ever, and interestingly address reuse was one of the main reported anonymization things, which shows education, education by wallets, and the importance of education by community.

And here I just listed some of the anonymization attacks: heuristics, flow analysis, side channel attacks, and auxiliary information. And for important heuristics we have common input ownership and also change address detection. And in common input ownership the attacker assume that all the inputs of a transaction belong to one user, so let's say Alice. And then in the change address detection the attacker tries to find the change address and then relate the change address to the owner of the inputs.

So, we also have time correlation, amount correlation and network layer information as side channel attacks in Bitcoin and we also have flow analysis transaction graph, users graphs. And in transaction graphs addresses or nodes, and the transactions are edges, and then we can create transaction graphs and also user graphs. We can relate all the users and by obtaining auxiliary information from the internet we can then tag the addresses and create those clusters. And there is wallet explorer.com if you go and enter a Bitcoin address, you can find to which addresses it may relate.

We also have mystery shopper payment, where the attacker pays actually, when the victim is a merchant ― the attacker buys something and then the attacker will be sure that the address belongs to the merchant. And then later on if the merchant combined this address with other addresses, all the addresses will review so for address reuse we always have we shouldn't use address reveal. So for address reuse we always have, we sure the address you use actually as the attacker can find other transactions and relate the transactions to each other.

We also have force address reuse where the attacker pays often a small amount to the target and hope that the victim will combine it with other addresses, and then the attacker can cluster the addresses.

So here is a snapshot of Sarah Mitchell paper, where they cluster, then tag the addresses. And then for our research we ask users which add-on privacy techniques in Bitcoin they are aware of? And the first one was mixing websites, and the second one was CoinJoin. And we also asked them which built-in privacy coins are they aware of? And do you think which one was the first one? Yeah, interestingly Monero rather than ZCash. First one ― Monero, and the second one ― ZCash.

And yeah, there are privacy solutions, such as mixing and privacy coins, and then for CoinJoin, for instance, we have implementations in CoinJoin. Users jointly created transactions with equal size output amount. And here is a real CoinJoin transaction.

But the problem… we also have CoinJoin wallets such as Jointmarket, Wasabi, and Samourai. And the problem with the CoinJoin is plausible deniability. So everyone who looks at CoinJoin can immediately tell that it's a mixing transaction. So what we found, and here is a quick recap, the interesting point was that some of the participants in our qualitative research have a lack of knowledge of difference between custodial wallets and non-custodial wallets. And let me elaborate on this point. Those participants were either unable or didn't care about the risk of using exchanges to manage their coins, although some of them were aware of previous hacks to the well very known exchanges, such as Metcox or Binance, they continued to use it and taking their risk mainly motivated by the ease of using such traditional exchanges. And also another factor was the risk of losing the keys in contrast of losing credential to access the website, which can be easily recovered.

And another interesting point was although someone realize the privacy issues relying on custodial wallets. For example, the exchange may ask KYC or correlate users transactions, other even didn't know that, and didn't think about it. And some of the participants assumed that blockchain is safe from privacy perspective as it uses for as an example PU11 told us Bitcoin is based on encryption algorithm which makes it anonymous, or another user told us the users don't know to whom the public key belongs, it's an alphanumeric phrase and all the identities are hidden in the network!

Another significant point is that willingness to apply mitigation tools to enhance the privacy in case of awareness. As an example one of the users told: "I have never heard about these privacy issues. If I knew about them I would have researched possible solutions to mitigate them".

We found that while address reuse and auxiliary information obtained from internet have increased attention among our participants, users are not aware about the most prominent heuristic, namely common input ownership. And we also found that some of the users distrust of privacy tools, and they believe that it is used by criminals, it is sometimes used for tax evasion, and as an example one of the participants told that: "I'm not a big business person, who wants to run away from taxes, so I have no reason to be anonymous".

And let's summarize briefly, what we found on privacy preferences. Why more than half of the participants prefer to use privacy coins rather than privacy techniques on top of Bitcoin? Those who preferred add-on techniques, expected future privacy enhancement in Bitcoin, which is not realistic in real near future, and it would be implemented by wallets. And then according to our study, users are willing to accept longer transaction time, but half of them dismiss the idea of paying extra fee for privacy. And there are also other interesting fact that the users, who were aware of the distinguishability of CoinJoin transactions with the same output amount, were not willing to use it. And then they favored alternative techniques that preserve indistinguishability, where the transactions cannot be flagged by monitoring tool.

So let's now look at the next slide which shows the key points for the current Bitcoin privacy wallets. And based on our finding, although they developed, excuse me, the development of Bitcoin privacy wallets started around 2015, privacy wallet still struggles to attract more users. And such wallets are complex and require minimum understanding of privacy concepts and techniques. And on the one hand current Bitcoin privacy wallets implemented ConJoin with same output amount, which suffers from distinguishability, and on the other hand the newly implemented indistinguishable techniques such as PayJoin or Wasabi wallet too, or Monero may be banned by governments. And in the interviews we found that users prefer to use wallets that support different coins. Thus we cannot expect users to install different wallets for different coins, and even worth installing additional wallets for their privacy. as well as having to spend time to learn their functions.

And let me just run over the key points. We found participants have little knowledge about privacy-enhancing techniques. Most of them were not informed about how these tools work. Even if they have heard about the techniques or privacy coin's name, they didn't know what kind of privacy is provided, or they assumed that these techniques are too technical for ordinary users. And they just told that they only buy and sell cryptocurrency for trading purposes, so they have no idea about the technical concepts, about cryptocurrencies. There were also negative understanding of privacy tools, such as using them for criminals or tax evasions. And these problems and the consequences of the public availability of the data and the blockchain need to be educated either by wallets or in social media. And we also suggest to have at least some sort of privacy in Bitcoin by even using some techniques over the Bitcoin, rather than using the ordinary transactions.

And that brings me to the end of my presentation. And let me just finish with the question: if we don't improve the user's privacy now, can we handle the consequences in the near future, when monitoring tools provide the users information on the public? Thanks.
