# AlexAnarcho

_**AlexAnarcho - Building Web3 with Monero**_

_Monero Konferenco 2022 #MoneroKon2022 Lisbon - Day 1 | Lightning Session 1_

[https://youtu.be/getCBpyXGmM](https://youtu.be/getCBpyXGmM)

---

_**AlexAnarco:**_ So, my talk is about Web3, which is the most exciting word in crypto right now. But I'm not going to talk about NFTs, because we are more of FT crowd here I think. So that means "fungible token".

My name is AlexAnarco, I am a host of a German podcast called the MoneroMumble where we once a month talk about the current developments in the Monero space. And I have also started developing a Web3 application built on Monero called TipXMR. And I just want to talk about that a little bit and maybe inspire one or two other people to follow my footsteps, because I myself was inspired by a guest from Douglas on the Monero Talk, who programmed, I don't know, some exchange service in Python, and I was just blown away by this, and in general I felt left out of the crypto space, because I didn't know how to code. And at that time there was this hashtag going around "learn to code", so I thought: "All right, I'm going to do it".

And then with my co-host Grischa, also known as Hundehausen on Twitter or GitHub, we had this idea of monetizing our live streams, because we live streamed the MoneroMumble. And we were like: "Oh, cool, we could do it like Twitch, where you have like this pop notification, and then the streamer gets monetized, and the donator is able to interact with the show — it's super cool, let's build it". And Grischa developed a prototype really fast that was self-hosted, so you would have to buy a VPS, a virtual private server, and put the software on there, configure it a little bit, start the application, then buy a domain, and set up the web server, and then it would work.

And at that point in time I was really a noob, I mean, I still am, but getting better. So I was really struggling with this and my intuition was: this is not user friendly, we're never going to get to adoption with tech that is so cumbersome to set up, that only a few people will be able to do it, we need to make it noob friendly and foolproof.

And so we took the idea, so basically how Grischa implemented in the first prototype is you would just have like your wallet RPC on the same virtual private server that would then check the sub-addresses and like notify the web app if the transaction has arrived. And then we started digging into the technical possibilities that Monero already offers, and we stumbled upon this really amazing library called Monero JavaScript, and we were blown away by this offers a WebAssembly Monero wallet full in the browser. So basically that means you're able as a user to use your browser, have a full Monero wallet, where you and you alone are in charge of the keys, so it's non-custodian, and you can send and receive transactions, you can sync the blockchain and all that cool stuff.

And so we've thought: okay, let's take this WebAssembly and create this framework around it, so that a streamer could just like go to a website, enter like the desired display name, and then they would generate a Monero wallet, and boom. they would be in, and then they could like copy a URL that we give them, paste it into their OBS, which is "open broadcasters software", it's like the most popular option for streamers, which would then implement a transparent browser source into OBS and whenever a new transaction arrives we would then render the message. I mean it sounds easy enough. It's not so easy, turns out, especially if you don't know how to write code. But yeah that was the idea. And technically it is all possible.

So my call to action here is for the people that really are passionate about Monero, like myself. I'm so passionate about it, that I was like: okay I'm going to spend my time learning how to code, to understand it better, become more literate in this new paradigm that we have. And right now I think we are at a really exciting point in time, because the Monero protocol is there, it's maturing, we just passed the tail emission, which is great, and the next hardfork is coming up. And we have all these cool libraries like Monero JavaScript that will bring Monero to the web and will truly create like this web3, where we have this fusion of the internet with this economy of value that you can transact to anybody in the world. And so if you like some streamer, you can support them, the streamer can then go and buy some coffee to survive. And yeah, I think the tools are all there, and now it's just at the point in time where we need to implement the tools, and we need to come up with cool and exciting things, ideas, how we could use the libraries, and really bring that ease of use to the general user, so we can grow as a community without having to use like the command line interface and stuff like this. So my call to action is: learn to code and build stuff with Monero, and do web3 correctly.
