# Seth for Privacy

_**Seth for Privacy - Fireside chat with Director Marc Meillassoux**_

_Monero Konferenco 2022 #MoneroKon2022 Lisbon - Day 1_

[https://youtu.be/LkBvVADqEWI](https://youtu.be/LkBvVADqEWI)

---

_**Seth:**_ I think you did a great job of showcasing what someone who maybe believes, that actually believes, when you get the chance to show them what data can be collected. And honestly, fairly straightforward ways even collected mostly like phone location data, browsing history, things like that, and you're able to construct a very clear picture of Mr. X and of the things that he did, the people who he talked to, the people who he engaged with, where he went, all of those things from that data. And obviously that was a very I think a chilling look at what data collection can do to really expose who we are as people to big tech, to governments, to nation states. So what is it? What made you want to follow it up with "Disappear", and  what's kind of the thing that you want the audience to get out of "Dissapear", when you're watching that?

_**Marc:**_ Yeah, well "Nothing to hide" was really at a time actually… when I heard about the Snowden revelations, I was really like non-savvy in terms of computer online security and so on. And I just remember I felt like: Ok, this is really not good just from a geopolitic point of view. But then I felt: yeah, I don't know much about these issues. It was not really as a journalist. I was correspondent in Germany for French newspapers. And 2013 and then 14 were very, there was a lot going on there, was well Ukraine already at that time, there was then in Palestinian, there was this, I don't know how you call it in English, printers is operation, then there was the beginning of DAESH. So I actually quickly moved to other topics.

And then in Berlin I got like familiar to this topic, because in Berlin we started to get a lot of what's we called the "digital exiles". So like actually a lot of people from like Wikileaks, but not only like Laura Poitras, for example, the filmmaker of "Citizen four" came to Berlin, there was like Berlin is known, also Germans are very into privacy, because of their past and history. And I started like getting along with this kind of people, and then I got really interested in like this privacy topic.

I've always been quite private, like instantly. I always had so pseudonyms, even all my first emails and so on. I don't know why but I didn't know how it worked, I didn't know networks, I didn't know all that stuff. And then I started going to, I was invited to a crypto party in the C-base, that was really like it's the oldest hackerspace actually in the world. I thought it was in Europe but it's actually in the world. And in Berlin it's like an institution. And I really like fell into it.

I came back with a encryption key, email encryption key, PGP key, without having understood necessarily everything, but yeah. And then I started to talk around me with my friends, with my colleagues, and I felt like for a lot of people it was not really a topic. And I always heard this, you know, this expression, this narrative: I have nothing to hide. And especially with some friends and Mr. Alex, he is one of my friends, who was former one of my flatmates, and he's an actor. So I told him: Ok, you are… I asked him: can I follow you your data, gather your data, and analyze your data for one month? And he said: Ok, yeah do it. And so we installed a spyware on his smartphone, and I had some hacker friends monitoring his computer too. He signed papers, we did that like really like legally, backed up. And of course for him it was like a big shock in "nothing to hide", because he understood like what metadata means.

You know, everyone thinks privacy is about, you know, what you send to your lovers, and people think no one cares about what I say to my friends. And even that is not true, like the richest material is metadata. And that's where he saw, for example, if you check where you sleep, where you are at 4 am, then you start to see like patterns of your life. And then in the end the two analysts who did the job, and didn't know him actually, got a lot of him, and even we didn't show everything in the film, especially, well he he's actually ok, but for example he was going out a lot and sometimes we say it, but we don't really stop on this fact, but he stayed dancing for like 48 hours like non-stop, and then well obviously you can't do that, and that's a data that you know insurance company would be very interested in, you know, especially if it goes on and on. And he was yeah he was spinning with his cars, he was sleeping at weird places, yeah there was actually a lot you could tell about. And the analysis of his data were made by two analysts, like professional analysts, but it was really a hand job, you know. It was they spent a couple of days on it, but you have machines doing it like much better and, you know, in an industrial way. And even they said with what we did already now, we could like start to make, to apply this analysis to like bigger crowds, and then get, you know, learn from the results and so on.

So yeah, I think "nothing to hide" is a dangerous narrative, and it kind of feel right, you know, if I don't do anything wrong, then I don't have nothing to hide. It feels valid, you know, legit, but of course then there is, you know, what you can make, the data say also about you know, and then you have the whole problem with like political activists, you know, you have and just allowing that a society can go after like certain people like you'll see in "Disappear", there are five protagonists and one is actually, well, it's about source protection for journalists, and we follow the surveillance of Julian Assange and Wikileaks, and that's also typically allowing that, you know, this kind of things happen. And yeah, and it leads to what we learned yesterday, that, you know, UK is going to extradite him after being like surveilled very harshly for seven years in the embassy in London. So yeah, so "nothing to hide", we did it was under Creative Commons, so there was a lot of, I think, there was like 400 screenings.

_**Seth:**_ Awesome.

_**Marc:**_ And the people like at the beginning were just doing screenings, and then more and more we were trying to like, you know, do like install party or crypto parties after like, do the screening earlier in the day, and because it always came down after the screenings to you know like "what we can do, what can I do", you know, even if I don't have much to hide. And "Disappear" was a difficult, a very difficult documentary for one reason, so we wanted to answer that question but there is no one-size-fits-all answer, even, you know, you could some tips, some answers would be valid for someone and dangerous for other people. So it was, so you have to go into what we call "threat models" and so that's what we did, we tried to, you know, like find like different kind of profiles, and then finding the stories accordingly. That was the hard part of "Disappear", was finding the stories and make it understandable that for everyone, you know, like for a teenager or for…

Well Max Thomas is still in "Disappear", he tries to get away from the Gafam after what he discovered, and so that's his, and he started, I won't spoil it, but it's actually interested, because he started something that has to do with the Fetiverse, which is a network of decentralized free software, social media with the most popular and well known is Mastodon, but then you have, and then, so he goes into this, and the project he started with other people is now alive, and there was even a Hackathon last week, there's going to be a new one in September, and there is like interest, a lot of interest behind the project. So I don't want to spoil, but it's also nice to see we talk a lot about free software, and that's something very interesting in the free software communities, like anyone can start a project, because the technology is available, and you have a lot of people who are just willing to, you know, build another internet or, you know, at least alternative projects. And that's what happened with Max, who has not a lot of clue of technology, but he's from just civil society.

_**Seth:**_ Yeah I think that's been one of the great things of starting to see people realize the need for personal privacy and realize that idea of like "nothing to hide" or that "I don't have anything to hide" falls apart quickly, when you realize that who you are as a person, the ability to have intimacy with other human beings, the ability to have relationships with other human beings really relies on you having privacy. If you have nothing to share with someone in a unique way, a lot of what we come to know is being a human falls apart quickly. So even if you're not someone who's targeted by a nation-state or a journalist, or a political activist, there's still much to lose by not caring about personal privacy. But I love to hear those stories where people wake up to that need for themselves, but they also take those steps to help others.

I'm really excited to see what project he kickstarted out of that, and excited to jump in to "Disappear" right after this. And I love you tag the importance of free and open source software. So obviously that fits in well with Monero and what we're trying to do here, which is at least hopefully fix the financial surveillance aspect of that, obviously doesn't fix all of the problems that we face in the current digital paradigm, but hopefully it can fix for those people who decide to use it, they can fix that financial surveillance angle. And that only is possible because of the free and open source movement, the ability to just create this, to build on the work of others and to share it freely.

So excited for that pairing, I think this would be a great audience to walk through "Disappear", and I am as someone who does privacy education, it's very hard to do that in a way that's approachable to everyone since, like you mentioned, we all have very different things that we want to keep it, and we all have very different things that make us who we are. So giving one catch-all answer is just impossible. So I'm very pleased to also see your approach there and learn from it, but thank you so much for jumping on, Marc. Any last comments you want to leave with the crowd before we kick off "Disappear"?

_**Marc:**_ Sorry, again?

_**Seth:**_ I said any last comments you want to leave at the crowd before we kick off "Disappear"?

_**Marc:**_
Well, maybe you'll see, so there is one part on Julian Assange, and as I said now Julian is about to be extradited to the US. And there has been a lot that has been said about Julian Assange and Wikileaks, and, you know, what they did or what they what they did not do, and, you know, he became like very marginalized and there starts to be support around him again. But as my personal opinion, I think it's gonna be devastating, if he's extradited to the United States for press freedom, but not only for press freedom for all our freedoms. And I think a lot of people there was also like smear campaigns, you know, like the I was just talking with other journalists about, you know, the role played by some of the institutional medias, like "The Guardian" and everything, so a lot of people got a… for me a wrong sense of what was going on, there are things that went wrong, and there are things Wikileaks can be held accountable for, but I think that's at least what I try to do right now, and I'm in a collective of journalists trying to speak up for Assange. And I think yeah all of us no matter what you can, you might think of his personality or something, that we all should, you know, it's, I think, it's a really historical period in terms of freedoms, and as I said not only press freedom, even if press freedom is gonna be very weaken if he gets extradited, because it means like any journalist can be extradited to a third-party state for no reason having, you know, not lived there, not worked there. And yeah, so that's currently I'm also working on it, on a documentary at the moment about this, and yeah, I think we shouldn't all like, you know, just talk about it, maybe write to our MPs, or just get involved, and just not let that happen, because it's yeah, I think it's a very dangerous precedent for all of us, no matter what you can think of the person.

_**Seth:**_ Yeah, it's a very, a very timely topic to be covering in "Disappear", and hopefully it'll get people thinking and taking action to do what we can to keep those freedoms. If journalistic freedom falls apart most others will quickly as well, we've seen that in other parts of the world, so hopefully we have some way at least in our current governmental systems, but yeah a crazy time but a timely one, so it'll spark good discussion after the film, and maybe some good action for people. So thank you for jumping on Marc, it was great to be able to chat with you face to face, and just walk through a little bit of both "nothing to hide" and then get an into to "Disappear". So very excited to tune in and thankful that all the people here get to enjoy your work, learn from it, and then hopefully take some practical steps towards personal privacy as a result.

_**Marc:**_ Ok, sure. Thank you for having me and have a nice screening.

_**Seth:**_ Thanks, Marc, have a good day.

_**Marc:**_ Ok, bye-bye.
