# Juraj Bednar

_**Juraj Bednar — Make Monero Peer to Peer Again!**_

_How Crypto Dealers will Return Crypto to its Cypherpunk Roots Monero Konferenco #MoneroKon2022 Day 1_

[https://youtu.be/4pj8ws005N4](https://youtu.be/4pj8ws005N4)

---

_**Juraj Bednar:**_ Several reasons for that: first is increasing regulatory bullshit, like bothering people with things like KYC and “where did you get the money from”, and all these ridiculous questions when people are buying, selling, or using in any other way. This has become quite extreme lately — people want to pay in a restaurant, and they are supposed to answer things like if they’re politically exposed persons, or if they’re doing money laundering, or things like this. So that’s the first part. Of course, it involves things like KYC/AML and tax reporting. I won’t talk much about it, but this is the problem that I’m presenting a solution for, and the solution doesn’t involve lobbying in parliaments and institutions, but on a more peer-to-peer way. Of course, we are at this beautiful Monero conference with a nice atmosphere and people with a different set of values than traditional conferences like Bitcoin Conference, so you might say: “Ok, but Monero is not a transparent blockchain, so what are you talking about? There’s no privacy concerns”. But I will look at it from the perspective of Bitcoin first, and you will see what I’m talking about.

So Bitcoin was supposed to be this peer-to-peer electronic cash system, it’s written right there in the headline. And then we look at what people do to actually buy Bitcoin. And they buy it on an exchange, which reports to the tax office, which saves your KYC documents in some archive folder, they report of suspicious transactions to financial police, and of course, if you do crypto, it is already a suspicious transaction, so they rather report everything — not such a nice thing.

Then we have these guys. So we don’t have such a problem with Monero, with chain analysis, but it’s still a problem. And then, of course, on the banking side, what most people do is they send fiat to the exchange or withdraw fiat from the exchange through the bank, and the bank has the same set of problems, including risk of account closure, and all this regulatory bullshit.

So these regulations are coming, and the solution doesn’t depend on what kind of regulations there are. I will tell you why. But they basically prefer a risk-based approach, which means they say: “Ok, if it’s high risk, then we need to check everything”. First it was exchanges, then they extended it to payment gateways, now ATMs, and providers of wallets, and so on. So this is the problem that I’m trying to find a solution for.

If or rather when these regulations are put in place, we have some solutions, and I will show you the inspiration for it. One of the first solutions is proxy merchants. So these are people, who can take your crypto and sell you the products or service that you actually want to buy. So an example of a proxy merchant could be a gift card vendor, which we just saw that we will have some nice gift card vendor, but it can be anyone. I want a new phone, new laptop, I find a proxy merchant, they buy it whenever, wherever they want, so Amazon or whatever, I paid them with Monero or anything else I want, and they get me the product or service. So if these regulations are put in place, I don’t want to be the person with my name on the trading account, and proxy merchants specialize in handling this kind of problem.

Then we have something I called “vekslaks’. During communism in Czechoslovakia we had these guys that were close to bus stations and train stations, and they were exchanging Czechoslovak crowns for Deutsche mark and vice versa. So these were basically illegal traders that enabled trade for common people, not for institutions. It didn’t matter what kind of regulations there were, you came from West Germany, you wanted to buy something in Czechoslovakia, so you would find this shady person, and they would take your Deutsche marks and exchange them to Czechoslovak crowns. So I believe that the time for vekslaks is coming again. Now they will not change between Deutsche marks, because Deutsche mark doesn’t exist again, but they will exchange between fiat and crypto. And we can already see this in countries with highly regulated exchanges. One of the common place, where you can see this, is Colombia, where it is quite heavily regulated. And this is the solution to the problem of regulations, or one of the solutions, becoming part of the parallel economy. I will explain, why this works.

One more thing before we go there, one other option is if your country, where you living, if the regulations are shitty, you can just leave to another country with less shitty regulation. I don’t prefer this approach, although I like to escape to other countries, but the governments, I’m like comparing governments, is kind of like comparing tapeworms, they’re kind of all bad just in different ways.

I like the atmosphere here, because people here understand that we are not only choosing the technology with number go up, but we are choosing values. And I really like Edwin, I hope it was Edwin, that I got the name correctly, I liked your talk about the values and the ontology, so thank you for that. So making a choice in crypto like Monero is actually a value choice, and you are choosing values like privacy and uncensored abilities, sovereignty and so on, privacy.

So in order to be able to benefit from these values you need a private way of acquiring crypto. You cannot just wire, I don’t know, 5 000 euros to Kraken by Monero and say: “Oh, now I’m super private, because I have Monero, because no one can see it on chain”. Well, no, but the financial police and exchange, and bank, and tax office, and all these guys see what you’re doing, so that’s not really a good idea. So we need solutions outside of just pure transaction level security.

And my inspiration for this, how to do it, are pot dealers, guys that sell wheat everywhere in the world in a heavily regulated environment. So these are people… so almost anywhere in the world selling wheat is highly regulated — somewhere it is more or less allowed, but if you comply with something in some countries, they can kill you for it, so the level of regulation varies. But almost nowhere it is like ok. Anyone can sell it, if not anything, then the regulation that is there usually is the regulation that forces you to pay taxes. So it’s regulated everywhere. And for some reason, I don’t know how, wherever you go, in under 24 hours, if you want to buy wheat, you have wheat in you, I don’t know, it’s magic, so what do these people that provide this product in a highly regulated environment worldwide do in order for you to be able to buy wheat, anywhere in the world, in a village, it doesn’t matter — you can always find a way to get it.

So let’s look at some features of wheat dealers, and how we can compare it and use the techniques that they use in creating this peer-to-peer market. So first of all it’s a peer-to-peer structure. There is no central exchange or central website, where you go and see who’s the vendor of wheat in Lisbon. They’re standing on the street there, you need to know someone, but you can find a provider, but it’s peer-to-peer, it’s not a centralized organization usually. It’s high availability everywhere — cities, villages, doesn’t matter — you always find a way to buy wheat if you want. It addresses the problem of regulation. The protocol for buying wheat is almost the same everywhere. Sometimes they have to be more careful, but it doesn’t matter what the regulations. So what I’m saying is that we don’t necessarily need to lobby the government to pass nice regulations towards crypto, because these guys, who are selling wheat, will also be able to sell us crypto and often they actually combine, and there are now wheat dealers that accept crypto, and also they buy and sell crypto. So this addresses this market structure of peer-to-peer merchants, addresses the problem of regulations. And you don’t need to read the 300 pages of the new fancy EU regulations to be able to get your crypto or use it.

They also provide education if you never smoked wheat before, they will tell you, where to light it, how it works, and they can answer your questions, what kind of strain it is, what we expect and so on. So this will be similar to crypto. They have handled security. So just by the sheer fact that they’re not in jail, and they’re selling you wheat, they have done either something right or they just started yesterday. But the most successful wheat dealers know how to handle the problem of cops. They either use reputation or they bribe the cops — they found a way. So they handled the side of security. So despite a heavily regulated environment, they handled it, and because it is available anywhere all around the world, it scales really well. So I often get this concern: “Oh, you know, one crypto dealer per city is not enough, and there are not many of them”. No, if there’s a business opportunity, you will have these guys standing at every corner and satisfying the market demand. Of course, you have to pay premium for that, probably, but this peer-to-peer economy scales much better than the hierarchical structures.

So vekslak, the crypto dealer, is part of the peer-to-peer economy, and they solve the problem of balancing supply and demand, even at the times when one side dominates. So right now we have a huge crash, everyone wants to buy, we stupid enough to sell to you chip Monero, well, someone who is hedged will probably sell to you, so someone who doesn’t care about the exchange rate, because they know what to do with it, they either have a dollar value fixed somewhere on some derivative markets or in stable coins, or they will hedge the Monero value on the long side. They provide privacy, they don’t want to know your name, they don’t want to ask you if you’re politically exposed, they just want to do the transaction safely and happily leave, so this is a way to acquire the coins privately with cash. Please, don’t use sepa transfers and revolut and all these things, use cash, meet with people — it’s a nice social occasion to meet your vekslak and do the deal. They provide education, so if they see that a client wants to buy some ultra shitcoin or they want to buy 10 000 euros worth of Monero into some software wallet or something or some online custodial wallet, they can say: “Ok, you can do that, but let me first tell you why it’s not a good idea”, and then they can help. And they solve the problem with regulations.

So how do you find the crypto dealer? You can go to Localbitcoins or Localmonero and so on. But I will suggest to you that it’s not such a good idea. Localbitcoins, for example, was infiltrated by American IRS agents, who were doing some traits and then asked people if they filled the right form, and some people had to pay some fines — so not such a good idea. And the reason it’s not a good idea is the same as the reason why it’s not a good idea to go to a website and buy wheat online, if you live in a country where this is regulated.

So how do you find a pot dealer, how would you do it? Does anybody have any idea? How do you find wheat dealer? So first of all, follow the smell — oh, someone smokes wheat, ok, let’s ask them how I can get someone. Ok, it’s bothering people but you have the same hobby, so might not be that intrusive. Then you might know some people who are smoking a lot of wheat, and you can go there and ask them. So in crypto it’s very similar. So if you don’t know where to find this dealer, what you can do is you first you can go to a meetup or a conference like this, meet people, get to know them, introduce yourself and maybe someone has the opposite problem — if you want to buy, maybe someone needs to pay rent and they want to sell. If not, you can follow your social circles, you know, a cousin knows someone who got rich in Bitcoin, so ask your cousin who’s that guy, can I buy some from him, does he want to exit to fiat. So basically you use the same technique as finding a wheat dealer, you follow the social network, the real world social network, and you just ask. And because these social networks are something that is called small world networks, you will very soon find someone who will solve your problem.

If not you can start a group within a group of friends or peers in your city, you can use a secure messenger like Signal, Threema, maybe Matrix, Element, not Telegram — that’s a spyware, I don’t know why crypto people always use Telegram, I don’t like that shit — and basically this group has offers: “I’m buying”, “I’m selling”. And that’s how you clear the trades. It’s very easy, you have trust in these groups, so that means that you won’t letting people that you don’t know, and you can have a parallel group with discussions. So that’s quite important. And you should embrace it. I have written a blog about how to start this this group within your community. So if you can take a picture of the last slide the link will be also there.

So what kind of problem does the vekslak solve? They have these papers with that American presidents, for example, on one side. They have a crypto representation of the same thing, so preferably something that has a dollar value, and they just change the form. So they take the paper, convert it into something on a crypto network that keeps the dollar value, I will tell you what that can be later, and then when someone wants to make the opposite trade, you take the crypto and you switch it to fiat. And with every trade you make a small commission on every trade, don’t be afraid to ask for some percentage, ATMs also ask for percentage, so that’s not a problem.

So basically in these crypto groups what usually happens is like right now when I look at the groups that I am in, everyone wants to buy crypto, no one wants to sell, because it crashed, so this is the great time for someone who can hedge themselves against this, and they can sell you the cheap Monero, cheap Bitcoin, and still be price neutral. So basically what you can do is in the groups, you just trade one side to the other, back and forth in normal situation. And in extreme situation where there is imbalance in demand and supply, and you cannot clear trades, that’s when the professionals make most money. So I know some vekslaks that are doing this. But they are doing this three times per year, they’re not constantly standing at the corner and doing that. They want to make their whatever three to five percent like three times a year, when there is demand and there’s no supply, and then they can chill out and enjoy their commission. And other trades are usually cleared by normal people that need to pay rent or want to go to a vacation, and they need their fiat or they want to buy some more crypto.

So how do we hedge it? You can use basically two techniques. You can use futures, there are risks and benefits to both versions futures and stablecoins. With futures we have an exchange risk, but what is nice about futures is that you are risking only the collateral for hedging which can be 30 percent of the value or 20, 15 if you automate. So that’s a nice way. There is of course KYC risk, so that the futures exchange might introduce KYC, even if they don’t have KYC right now. So you need to consider this. But there are some pretty nice projects that are working on futures, that are decentralized or at least anonymous. So you can do this. Because of the way the futures work there is something called a funding rate or a contango. And when you’re hedging to fiat, you are usually paid some interest rate. So vekslak, if the vekslak is not trading, they can chill out and they are making some interest rate on one of the sites, the crypto site. If you want to do it with Monero, you can, FTX and Coinex have XMR perpetual swaps, so you can do it today. They don’t require KYC under certain amounts. And we are only talking about collateral. So you don’t need to deposit the whole amount. So that’s the way to do it with Monero. You can hedge Monero to US dollars on these exchanges. And you can directly sell the currency that you’re hedging, you don’t need to do any more exchanges so that lowers the fees and frictions.

With stablecoins you have of course the risk of some smart contracts, regulations, blacklisting, holding the peg and so on. On the other hand you can hold the keys in your hardware wallet, which is really nice. If you want to earn interest, you need to put it in some DeFi protocol, which has other risks. And one of the nice projects that is directly integrated with Monero and has an exchange between stablecoins and Monero is called Incognito. So if you want to keep your privacy a little bit and be hedged, and be able to exit directly to Monero, you can check it out, it’s pretty nice project.

So just to see, this is an example of annual interest rates on futures. Right now it’s quite small, but it used to be something like this, so 9.61 percent is not uncommon. Stablecoins have, I don’t know, three to eight percent — depends on the weather.


Anyway, so we are at Monero conference, so I have a suggestion why to use Monero. So one of the first problems that every vekslak faces is tainted coins. First of all it’s more problematic from the customer side. The customer doesn’t want to get tainted coins. And this is one of the reason why they’re afraid. I have seen this many times, they ask: “Oh, where you did you get the coins? From what kind of coins they are?” and so on. So the first problem is actually people don’t want to trade. The second problem which is a little bit worse is that they can call you back in half a year, and they say: “Oh, the coins you sold me have a problem. I didn’t know that, but now I know. So what do we do?” So Lightning Network can solve this kind of problem. But then there’s a problem of liquidity and channel opening fees. Another problem is I have this vekslak in one Latin American country, I used to buy local shitcoin with them, and then I realized that he always gives me the same address. So I looked at the blockchain and I’ve seen how much money he is making in a month. Quite a good life actually. But you should not enable people to see all your transactions. So that’s another reason to use Monero and not expose your trading volume basically.

Also with Bitcoin waiting for the first confirmation, especially if it’s cold or rainy outside, is not so much fun and it can take half an hour for a transaction to confirm. Of course, if you have a client that you know you might say: “Ok, zero confirmation is nice, it will confirm at some point”, but it doesn’t have to ,they can double spend it, so this is quite nice that the blocks in Monero are a little bit faster, and I think one confirmation is enough.

What is nice is you get also the level of privacy of Lightning Network with hardware wallet security. You don’t need to walk around with your private key. So if you’re buying crypto, if you see the transaction and it’s confirmed, you don’t have the private key to spend it, you have a view only wallet, so that’s also nice. So that’s about it. And you can also do a privacy preserving dollar-cost-averaging. I probably don’t have time for that, but if you know how to hedge, you can basically turn some of your fiat reserves into crypto, but a hedge into fiat, so you still have fiat, and you can buy basically from yourself. So that’s a very common problem, I want to dollar-cost-average, but I don’t want to go to ATM and meet some people and trade with them — it’s burdensome, and I want to sit in my comfy chair and click and that’s how I want to dollar-cost-average. So what you can do is you can trade larger amount, hedge it into fiat and then unhedge it once a month, and you can sit in your comfy chair, click and don’t lose your privacy. And as a bonus you can earn interest rate on that fiat, which is positive, not negative usually.

All right then you can balance the sides. So one of the problem that can happen is that you have a lot of papers with the dead presidents, and you need to get rid of them, and turn them into crypto or the other way around. So there are some ways — I mentioned proxy merchants, so if you have a lot of crypto and you need fiat to make the trades, one of the good things is buying discounted gift cards, and basically becoming proxy merchants for fiat people, you just give them discount, they’re all happy, because they get their shit cheaper, and you get fiat. So you can use things like press.io for discounted shopping on Amazon, and that’s how you get rid of crypto and get the papers, and you can then sell the papers to your customers, or you can use the feature of hedging, actually paying interest rates, so you can provide interest bearing accounts to your family or your friends. If fiat prevails you can do the opposite things — you can take a loan and, of course, you can sell your services, teach people crypto and get more crypto that way.

So as a conclusion, I think, I’m using this metaphor of my friend who is an economist of Austrian school, he says that money is the memory of the good deeds of society. So if you help someone, if you provide some valuable service, it’s recorded in a database called money. And because the main memory can go bad, for example, if you have a central bank they might corrupt the database by inserting fake entries, it’s good to have a backup. So crypto economy is a backup memory of good deeds of society, and vekslaks are people who make these records available. They are the protection against bad regulations, because to them regulations don’t matter. And these are for corporations, people dealing staff don’t care what the regulation is. They can provide privacy and education even in a favorable regulatory environment. And it’s a good way for crypto enthusiasts to make some more money on the side, and they are returning the peer-to-peer nature to crypto. Thank you very much.
