# Edwin den Boer

_**Edwin den Boer - Consequences of Consequentialism: How Trolley Switchers Derailed Decentralization**_

_Monero Konferenco  #MoneroKon2022 Day 1_

[https://youtu.be/j4lJcK3_ADA](https://youtu.be/j4lJcK3_ADA)

---

Hi guys. We’ve already started in break. I have a kind of a theory about what kind of community we are. So let’s just start with this.

On the front page of monero.com you can answer three questions about sort of thought experiment. The first one known as the “trolley problem”, which is from a popular meme on social media. So we might have recognized that, I think, that this is related to the thought process of certain crypto projects which are not really decentralized, So I’d like to ask your opinion about scenarios such as this phone. The trolley problem, if you know, now it’s as follows — there’s a trim, also known as trolley in American, out of control. It sets to Renault for five people but that we do who are tied to the track. Would you throw a switch that the first trolley to another track, so there’s only one person who skilled. I see this is current state, status is 15 times yes, and 12 times now. Okay it’s in a nice number of answers.

There are two more questions on switch, but I’ll look back at those later. And I’ll just start with my presentation. Of course I have to explain something first. I advising I’m not supported by Fiat, the car company, you know, nor by Heineken, and they don’t endorse my talk. But I really am a fan of fiat money as I understand it. Monero is fiat money, is money because we say it is so. It’s not really digital gold. Digital gold was a nice metaphor in the beginning, when Bitcoin started. I think bitcoiners are taking it a bit too seriously. I really love the idea that anybody can make their own money, and anybody else can decide whether they give value to it or not. Another thing is I was inspired to do this, when I bought sport car, which was the basically the chip car I could find that had cruise control, which was a Fiat and clearly not a Ferrari, and we can say, you say for Monero, it’s a little rough around the edge just as you can see around you. You’re not in a five-star hotel, we don’t have a glitzy website, we’re just regular people who are trying to do right things, do that right and have some fun, and make proper money.

So the third series for doing that, which is very close to my heart, it’s a slogan of the philosophy which motivates I think a lot of people, who are into freedom and decentralization, and basically anyone who wears any kind of principles whether it be religion or veganism, or anarchy, or pacifism. “Fiat iustitia, pereat mundus” in Latin, which means but just to spit on even if the world perishes. This is of course an exaggeration, I’m not saying that NATO should declare war to Russia or something, but it was it was a slogan, I think, it’s in the Middle Ages, when it was really possible to destroy the world, but if it was needed in many contexts to make sure that politics didn’t interfere with justice. I hope you can see my slides I met for two years a large fund.

Okay, yeah, I have a photo from Lisbon, where at around trolley problems. You can see and read the title: “The consequences of consequentialism”. And yeah, I’ll say one more thing about myself. This slide is really meant to be confusing — you’ll see some collage from all kinds of shitcoins: Ethereum, NFTs, HoboNickels, proof of stake, minting and of course I have personal favorites and my GayCoin wallet. It’s not photoshopped. I really earned 690 000 GayCoins. Okay in other words I’m the least likely person to tell you that Monero is the best, and that no one should use that other coins have a reverse mentality.

I’m also like to call myself an altcoin historian, and I don’t have really a this kind of historian, but I have been, yeah, let’s say Monero is the only project around the community I would work for, but I try to use everything else. And I hope, well, when crypto is dead, which is which is happening soon I guess, I want to write the history. So far things will move into faster to do that. In other words I always keep telling people they shouldn’t focus on theory when we have empirical data. And so today I’m going to do the opposite and there is good reason for that.

The core question is “In a short history of cryptocurrencies, why were there, were so many decisions made that were contrary to the spirit of decentralization?” And those who are not just convenient decisions or not natural centralization either, not even straightforward scams, but well I think for example here we all know a lot of things along with Zcash, if they added a trusted setup and had a founder’s reward. Now there’s a weird have decentralization theater, because they I guess like the Electric Coin Company shared their trademark with the Zcash Foundation, and then they invented some new tech, and it’s a special license for it for anyone who wants to use this has to ask permission. So there’s a lot of wrong with the Zcash approach. And I wondered why would someone like Zooko Wilcox, who doesn’t strike me as an evil person, why would he consistently take the wrong approach. And he explained this, has explained it himself on The Zcash Forum in April 2018. He wrote: “To me, it is never the right thing to enact a policy based on good attentions, sentiment, or ideology unless you can determine that the consequences would be good”. And he’s saying that the Monero community is going with good intentions, sentiment or ideology. Of course he is making us look like a bunch of hopeless romantics, especially thinking about the sentiment, when it’s of course the ideology he has a problem with. Otherwise I do agree that we as Monero community don’t focus on our ideology, and don’t let certain consequences distract us from our goal. I retweeted about that in April, later in April 2018, retweeted it. He comes seated now, because he blocked me later. So I assume you agree with this. And I know well no one really developed this thought, so I’m going to do that now.

So he talked about consequences, Zooko, and we can order a prominent person in crypto who’s calls himself explicitly a consequentialist or utilitarian, which is let’s say the trolley problem approach you philosophy we’ll explain that later, Sam Bankman-Fried, who was inspired by his mother Barbara Fried, who was one of the founders of the effective altruism, movement effective altruism, is an approach to really do whatever it takes to do the maximum good for the world. And well Sam just decided to become a billionaire and eventually did it. I tried to become billionaire so sort of so that he could do the most goods by giving his money from trading firm Alameda Research, which is also he says the crypto exchange FTX is also a big supporter of the Serum decentralized exchange, and he essentially made a decision to run that on the Solana blockchain and started supporting that tool.

So I want to go into details here, but everybody knows there are some conflicts of interest here, like Alameda trading on their own exchange FTX, which is well nobody knows if there is above board, but it’s a little fishy. And I think people tend to overlook that problem, because it’s all for the greater good, that’s a story. And yes, what I said earlier, I don’t know, about Vitalik Buterin, what his philosophical background is, I know he has some libertarian principles, but I think Vitalik shows that it’s dangerous to have an open mind. You shouldn’t have such an open mind that your brain falls out. And so the Ethereum is a bit of a complicated case, but I think it had a profound effect on crypto in general. So I will say something more about it later.

Okay, let me explain the philosophy here. There are many approaches about deciding what is a moral decision, but three of the major approaches are virtual ethics, which is focused on someone’s character, and to be honest this is considered a philosophy, because it was already popular in the ancient world, but its rather subjective, I will analyze that in a short talk. I will focus on two other approaches —my favorite one is deontology: is the action moral according to general rules? Or consequentialism. Consequentialism articles against this good or bad.

And we have found a popular meme, I had to censor it a bit, but it’s another topic. You see here it’s funny that Immanuel Kant is on the side of the low IQ curve here, he would say: “You have the duty to keep a secret”. Aristotle would argue with him: “Do you really want to be a snitch?” The one in the middle is Jeremy Bentham representing consequentialism and especially the variant called utilitarianism, he will say: “If telling a secret makes more people happy you’ve got to do it”.

So I will not dwell on virtual ethics. It is important, it does play a role in crypto. Personalities are important in our movement. But we try not to rely on people, and we also know that digital character is not reliable, because there are a lot of scammers and fakers who still have large following. We know some popular traders fall down recently, and of course you have worse people, let’s say maybe Craig Wright is the worst, I think, that there are still some people following him

So back to consequentialism, as I said several variants. Just to pick a few — you can divide it into a is it good or bad for us and our consequences could have bad for whom. The most popular process — utilitarianism, which analyzes is it good of bad for the greatest number of people, I also say it’s a good or bad for myself, that will be egoism, for others — altruism. So I’m focusing on utilitarianism, but the thing is this could always be, this could almost be an excuse for egoism, and I don’t think it’s useful to be cynical. I don’t think it’s useful to analyze people’s motivations — you don’t really get anywhere doing that. I will take a charitable approach, and I’ll say that that can still have bad consequences.

What makes consequentialism so attractive? It’s a rational approach. And we are all scientifically minded people, especially if you’re coders. So it’s also doesn’t seem to require any shared norms, it’s also convenient for crypto, because it’s in an international community. On the other end it does require shared values — you have to determine what makes the consequences good. And in general it promises to create a better world on the surface. I think that is a bit of a deception, because you don’t really know what the consequences are, and it’s dangerous to be distracted from your main principles, which I feel in the long term have the best effects on improving the growth.

So the trolley problem. I already explained this one with a nice diagram from Wikipedia. The choice is between letting it happen and five people die or deciding to kill one person. So this is I’ve got a thought experiments about action or inaction. And this is I think one reason, this became popular is well I think it became popular as a meme, because it’s absurd and it’s extendable. I think specialists liked it, like this example, because it makes them look relatively good. But there are some problems with it.

As I said the ideas that there were people tied to the train tracks. So if you think a bit more why aren’t we doing anything about this. So miscreant is tying people to the train tracks that seems to be a bigger problem than choosing which person is going to die. So I think there’s a reason that the scenario is so absurd. But because the original scenario was that there were brokers walking on the track and in that case you could say: well, I’m not going to control the switch, which is a bit of a poetic license, I think, I don’t think it is proper English, but I am a licensed poet, I’m a probably poet, I am allowed to do that. So a real realistic scenario would involve uncertainty, and that’s true when in any example which you’re going to look at. And then deciding on consequences is certainly going to be a lot more complicated.

Yeah, I mentioned deontology, just with a fair weird word. I don’t think anyone in Monero call themselves a deontologist, but we just can say we have cypherpunk principles or something like that. It should derived from “deon”, the Greek word for duty. Oh Cake — it’s a really stable app, I’m sorry just gives you the wrong impression. So yeah, why do I come talking about duty to a freedom focused project, or talking about a self-imposed duty, not duty from authorities. And one thing that pretty relaxed about it, is consequentially make themselves responsible for creating a better world. We’re not going to do that, at least, you know, don’t know who you are, but I’m not going to do that. I’m just going to do the right thing, to create private, secure and functional money. And I’m sure that will be best for the world in the end. But we’re not going to consider every immediate consequence. I have some examples for that.

Yeah, I don’t want to call it Monerochat, because there’s all a Twitter account called that, but at least some objections from let’s say people who are with criticisms of crypto. For example: “If you make payments private for everyone, criminals could use them!” And we say: “Yeah, okay, everybody should be able to use it”. And usually left down sounds like that. So other things are: “If addresses can’t be traced, some exchanges won’t list it”. Oh, it’s too bad. And we’re not going to, I’m not going to ruin our project just so we can get listed. Also they say: “But it’s not a stable coin, the dollar value is volatile”. Well, you know, we saw that this week. Yeah, there’s really nothing we can do that without introducing centralization.

Very thankful objection would be: “If there’s no premine, developers have to beg for money”. Well, we have seen problems with Athena this week, and we of course we should mention the organizer of the first Monerokon has big financial problems, which were related to Monerokon and his crowdfunding. But still we think this is the best approach, you know, just come to keep some of the money for ourselves, just so we can pay developers. And an objection that tax authorities can’t check account automatically, check your welfare income if you manage those in a bank account. I think everybody here will would just prefer to pay taxes voluntarily. And last objection: “If you’re using energy for an economic purpose!” People will probably face it as say: “You’re boiling the ocean!” But so I think it’s pretty simple — we shouldn’t discriminate against a particular use of energy. If something abuse carbon into the atmosphere or methane, it should just be taxed. And I hope that’s the word “tax” isn’t the controversial here.

So I said Ethereum was a big problem because of the consequences on the general crypto atmosphere. Six years ago it was the irregular state change after the DAO was hacked, and I have to say that DAO it was a stupid name, it was already a stupid plan from start before it was hacked. They just threw a big a lot of money on one big pile without any plan. And with a convoluted way to split money if you disagreed with decisions, and that was also one of the things that went wrong that was exploited. So someone stole 3.6 million Ether, about a third about a third of the funds invested, and eventually developers decided to hardfork the chain, give the investors the money back, and set the attackers’ balances to zero.

And some consequentialist said that that roll back of chain is actually worse than that we just changed their balances. So and certain motivation service complicated, it’s really a confused time, people who actually did this didn’t have much time to argue. And what I heard from Community managers was arguments that I would call consequentialism. For example they said: “Professional investors won’t take us seriously when we let thieves get away with it”. “We’re going to switch to proof of stake soon, which means the attacker would have a significant power”. So here we see, you know, another example of the role of uncertainty, because proof of stake is coming soon now, but it is six years later. This is how you shouldn’t take too much attention to your expectations of reality when making a decision.

And I’ve even one person who fought for the Ethereum — Alex Van de Sunde, who was designing and was very involved for this process. He said “they were ‘trolled into’ the hard fork by someone who was pretending to be the attacker”. It’s very complicated, but they thought the attacker was following the rescue process, but in fact it was a troll, the guy who created Chatroulette. It’s incredibly funny. I mean look at it now. But of course my question is how can you be trolled into betraying your basic principles? Because Ethereum like Monero was supposed to be permissionless. It was supposed to be immutable. It was supposed to be called this unstoppable applications for the original promise. So how do you get from there to being trolled into editing the blockchain.

There were some arguments also about property rights, which you might call somewhat principles. And most common argument was “it wouldn’t be right to let the attacker get away with theft at such a large scale”. But that would open a can of worms. At which scale do we start editing the blockchain? This led to some discussions, for example, when the ECM company accidentally froze millions or millions of dollars worth of Ether. And unlike EOS this was not the intention in Ethereum’s original social contract to make successful changes in order to fight the sort of theft. Also many of the people who lost money were Ethereum insiders. So as I said I don’t want to speculate about people’s motives, but of course there was a big risk, exclusion here.

So what were the consequences for Ethereum. There was the precedent that you could edit a blockchain that is still there. It was a traumatic experience for that community, and it was why I left and why I came to Monero. And they didn’t do the same again on the main net. But the precedent is still there, and when it comes to apps or stablecoin, it’s even considered normal to fix balances of exploiters or thieves. There was recently a case of the Optimism second layer project. There were a few millions I would say that were misappropriated. Eventually the exploiter reach deal with them, but they said they considered certain network upgrades to freeze those tokens. And then they said on Twitter: “We will not take this step at this time”. So this was a statement which would make you worry. At which time would I take this? But more in general I think it’s anonymous a precedent which is damaged, but instead that it made the Ethereum community rudderless. And since we’re just the economic activity is on Ethereum, that made the crypto movement in general rudderless, without direction. If you have no basic principles, how are you going to make big decisions? It’s philosophical, but it’s really tough practical problem.

For example those this proposal EIP-1559 which started as a really technical move to stabilize the transaction fee market which required burning base fee, because otherwise miners could exploited in a certain way. So more or less accidentally Ethereum became almost deflationary, you know, depends on market circumstances. But it will probably become deflationary after proof of stake. So what we then saw was that Ethereum influencers on Twitter started posting about ultrasound money. Certainly they were more interested in deflation and hard money than bitcoiners. So then I think if it’s that easy to change your mind, what will they come up next? It’s unpredictable.

And I think this has consequence for crypto in general. And one thing I realized well writing this talk, so there’s a problem with the concept of decentralization in general. I mean decentralization is important. It is an important technology with which gives us freedom. But as a deal very weak, it’s a vague, weak organizational ambition. Decentralization used to be disruptive, and Satoshi came up with a way to realize it. But now it’s become a vague organizational ambition. It’s not a hard promise like financial privacy, which is our promise basically. And Web3 is even vaguer. You can catch anything under a number. And I think our way of dealing with that isn’t productive either. When people from Monero or Bitcoin criticize smart contract projects for not being decentralized, you’re just sticking with the same narrative. You still assuming that decentralization is the goal. But it is not an attractive ideal that will attract new users to this technology. So I think we should come up with something else, whether it’s freedom technology or whatever. I think I don’t have an answer to that. I think we should do something about it.

On the other hand depends on a positive note. I think we can have a happy conclusion for Monero. When we look at crypto philosophically, it make us look relatively good. What we learned is principles and principles competitors aren’t necessarily evil, and we have opponents, not enemies. And also we don’t need to be toxic. There’s already a basic fundamental difference in our way of thinking, so you don’t need to stress it by screaming or whatever exaggerating. And I think looking at the philosophy is useful to avoid getting dragged into debates about immediate consequences. I hope what this talk helps you do is when you see a certain debate about which really goes about immediate consequences, you’re to realize: “Hey, we should take a broader view”. So I hope that we as Monero already have a stronger ideal than decentralization. We could help to keep the community to develop on too. And in general we have a firm footing and clear conscience, so we can look forward for the solution. Thank you.
