# Mr P, Libre, MRPT and Nala

_**Mr P, Libre, MRPT and Nala - The Role of XMR in Portuguese Freedom-based Economies**_

_Monero Konferenco  #MoneroKon2022 Day 1_

[https://youtu.be/EcfxkWqXABE](https://youtu.be/EcfxkWqXABE)

---

_**MRPT:**_ So, I want to introduce Libre, one of the experts. He’s going to make a presentation here about technology and privacy, and the Google phones, and just like a free open source software. Phil, our Mr P, our great expert in XMR, many years in the business and in the field. And Mel, our aussie and freedom cell gatherer of people, mainly like experts. I represent the locals. I’m probably one of the only local speakers in this conference. We are going to leave some cards here of our businesses and projects, and we’re free to be like approached at the end, if you if you want.

So basically like in the last two years, since the last circus or tyranny has been implemented, and we have been connecting people from Europe, from the States, people that are gathered and based in Portugal. And basically I started to create essentially friendships and trust networks that are essential in XMR and in the crypto space, because we all know that like the casual society is coming, we all know that like the internet as we know possibly is going to like change, and we are going to need people to get to know each other, to have trust to create like the bedrock on which everyone, the geeks, sorry, that are like online and are just like exchanging and talking in like IRC chats and things like that. The hip is that with like in the hills and don’t care if they have like an internet connection, but they will care when they will need like things and XMR as that potential to be the next cash, and the next alternative market, and that’s what we’re already like achieving now. I have actually been paid in XMR for like services like I would be like in cash. And this is the future.

And the trust networks, and you knowing that if anything happens you have people next to you that you can rely on, that can support you, that you can learn from. And it’s fundamental, and we can’t talk, and this would just be like, sorry for the expression, like circle jerking in geeky internet mode, if we don’t get it like in other presentations we talked about, we don’t get it right down to earth, like foot on the ground, head in the clouds, you know. And in Portugal in that aspect is wonderful — we are a very like cash friendly society. A lot of this fact despite like people usually like are very like conformist, or like conservative. People always like pretend that they do things, but then do things like on the side, and are a little bits like sneaking. So if anyone is considering you like places to be based on, hey great weather, just like this being like a little bit shady, like this last days, great communities, great people, great food, I don’t know if you tried but please try it, okay, great food. And just like people that are real like passionate about their do about, what they’re doing, about freedom. We’re already like several, a few thousands, and people are also like connected to people elsewhere. We have friends in many, in every country. And like the possibility of growth is awesome. So if you guys are working for a place, if you are digital nomads, if you’re people that are trying to like to find a place where you can find family, friends, community, village, just like living in the city and just having like people down the other blocks that you can have like a drink or a restaurant night out like during a lockdown. It’s what we’re here for, for living in freedom, and coherent with that and not giving a red says, sorry for the expression, for like for what laws are made from just caring about like morality and the non-aggression principle, and just like basically living with freedom and act what we all love here like privacy, decentralization, prosperity, peacefulness, freedom, sovereignty, more ideas… Just basically it’s that we are free to be. Basically the concept of freedom cells, it’s basically like the non-aggression principle, just within the “live and let live”. We are not like cooking for each of us is a leader in different things, and we are not like centralized. There is no like leaders or like there’s like people that just like do things, and just decentralization and trust, and just being real with people. And in the end helping each other doing like workshops, skill sharing between the other things. Just to come talk to us.

_**Nala:**_ Can I ask the audience a question? I’m really happy that you’re looking at Monero, and I think it’s important to understand what’s going on, but let me ask you: this you saw the stuff in Canada and other countries if they decide tomorrow to freeze your bank accounts, where are you getting your food from? You may have Monero in the bank, but who are you going to get it from, who are you going to get your food from, unless you know someone, unless you’ve connected with someone in the community that grows food? Where are you going to spend your Monero? And you’ve got to make sure that that person will accept Monero in order for you to have food. So that’s what we’re about is building small community networks that we can rely on one another. Small decentralized groups of six to eight people, maybe 10 people that we know and trust really, really well. But then have the expertise spread all over Portugal and around the world that we can call on a lawyer or an IT specialist, a Monero person, someone and say: “We’re in trouble, give us a hand”, and we can pay them in Monero. But you may have Monero, you may be trading Monero, and that’s amazing, but unless you have somewhere to spend it, when the world goes a little bit scary in way that you may not want, you haven’t really got much benefit to you, because you need to eat. So that’s what we’re about doing is building the community, so that you have the facility to eat, find doctors, find services and pay as you wish perfectly with Monero.

_**MRPT:**_ Ultimate tips and solutions.

_**Doug:**_ So thank you so much guys for creating the Monero circular economy, I like it. You guys want to hand your card out if anybody who wants to grab their information.
